---
title: Rest of Instructions
title_seo: ▷ Rest of Instructions 【 Sea Como SEO ⚡️ 】
slug: rest
description: Si has contratado nuestros servicios y quieres saber detalles más profundos, te interesa ésta página 😉
image: '' # instrucciones.svg
toc: true
draft: false
noindex: true
translationKey: rest
---

These instructions are continuations of:

[btn icon-circle-check Delivery](/en/delivery/)
[btn icon-pen-to-square Content Manager](/en/cms/)


## Google Business Profile / Gmaps

I strongly recommend having this service. Both for visibility (you have a physical place or not) and for the possibility of leaving you reviews (so I could copy them directly for the corresponding section).

- **If you already have:** I can help you optimize it (or at least I can link it with your website). For it: [Google Business](https://business.google.com/) ➡️ Select your company ➡️ Look for the 3 point icon icon-ellipsis-vertical ➡️ `Business Profile Settings ➡️ Administrators ➡️ Add` ➡️ Enter the email <code>[seacomoseo@gmail.com]()</code> with access to **Owner** ➡️ `Invite`.
- **If you don't have:** I can create the profile. Once created, around 13 days a physical postal letter must arrive at the location indicated with a code that you must facilitate to verify that the business exists right there. From there the profile will be shown in Google and Google Maps and you can indicate reviews and other information. I will give you permits to be able to manage it yourself.


## Comments System

If you want to have a comment system for the blog/articles, the compatible external service is [disqus.com](https://disqus.com/), place where you must register and provide me with your username to add and you can moderate and see statistics.


## Analytical systems

I always install the free Google Analytics and Google Search Console systems.

I need Google accounts to indicate to give them permits to use these services and visualize data.


### Google Analytics

To add users yourself: [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/) ➡️ `Manage ➡️ Libre 🗽' account Add users' ➡️ Select your property ➡️ Property access management ➡️ Button icon-circle-plus ➡️ Add users` ➡️ Add the desired emails with the desired `Roles`.


### Google Search Console

To add users yourself: [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console) ➡️ `Site ➡️ Settings ➡️ Users and permits ➡️ Add user` ➡️ Add the desired emails with the desired `Permission`.


## Forms

By default those of Netlify Forms are used without having to configure anything, but the possibility of using any external service (with the limitations that each one) is also planned.


### Netlify Forms

To define emails where to receive the forms:

1. Log in with the email and password that I have sent you.
2. Select your website ➡️ `Site settings ➡️ Forms ➡️ Form notifications`.
3. Here you can:
   - Add notifications by `Add notification ➡️ Email notification`.
     - Write the emails to receive notifications of forms separated by commas.
     - Select the forms previously defined on your website on which to receive notifications.
   - Modify notifications by `Options ➡️ Edit notification`.

To visualize and download a CSV with all the forms received:

1. Log in with the email and password that I have sent you.
2. Select your website ➡️ `Forms ➡️ Active forms`. Here you can see the generated forms and select the desired to display data.
3. To download a CSV with all data: Select the desired form and click on `Download as CSV`.


### Others

If you want or need to use a different forms service, you should only take into account some details:

- Obviously emails reception emails and any configuration depends on the service used.
- In the CMS, when editing a form:
   - The `action` label must be placed in the equivalent `Action` (example: `https://formspree.io/f/{form_id}`).
   - The `name` label must be placed in the equivalent `Name`.
   - The `placeholder` label field must be placed in the equivalent `Summary`. If this is omitted, the `Name` will be used.


### Google Forms

There is a hack to receive forms with Google Forms directly on a Google Drive spreadsheet.

Thus there is no limitation in terms of forms numbers to receive and there is also the comfort of the spreadsheets.

The only drawback is that when sending the form from our website, the user appears a message of thanks / form sent from Google Forms himself and can only return to our website if he returns back from the browser.

#### Tutorial

1. Access to [Google Forms](https://docs.google.com/forms/).
1. `Create form icon-circle-plus`.
1. Add a title to identify the form easily.
1. `Questions` tab.
1. Eliminate the `Question without title` that appears by default.
1. Add all desired fields through `Add question icon-circle-plus`:
    - Where he puts `Asks` equivalent to the `Summary` of our field.
    - Mark `Mandatory` equivalent to `Marking` required' of our field.
    - As for the `Type of question`, the equivalences are:
      - `Text (simple)` = `Short answer`
      - `Telephone (simple)` = `Short answer`
      - `Number (simple)` = `Short answer`
      - `Date (simple)` = `Short answer`
      - `Time (simple)` = `Short answer`
      - `Text area (simple)` = `Paragraph`
      - `Multiple choice)` = `Drop down`
      - `Radios (multiple)` = `Several options`
      - `Casillas (multiple)` = `Casillas`
      - `Hidden` = `Short answer`
    - For the `Email (simple)` field (`Required`):
      - `Configuration` tab.
      - In `Answers` mark` Collect email addresses`.
1. To obtain the remaining necessary data of `Name` and `Action` for our form:
    1. `Send` button.
    1. Mark `Register emails`.
    1. Mark `Include form in email`.
    1. Add your own email.
    1. `Send`.
    1. Go to the Google Forms email you just received in your email input tray (it has as a matter the title you put to the form).
    1. Above each field:
        1. Click with secondary button ➡️ `To inspect`.
        1. Copy the attribute value `Name`. Example: from `name="entry.179409215"`, We must copy `entry.179409215`.
    1. With the open inspector (`Ctrl/Cmd + Alt + I`), We are looking for (`Ctrl/Cmd + F`) the label `<form`.
    1. We give the key `Enter` until reaching the last.
    1. Copy the attribute value `action`, which is the equivalent of `Acción`. Example: `https://docs.google.com/forms/u/0/d/e/1FAIpQLSeCsNLiGhFPUqbDMibhy3Vwj_ZH08-b7Zd1RAPmPc3H8rcd6w/formResponse`.
1. All data obtained in the previous 2 points must be used to create forms in the CMS in `Sections ➡️ Row Contact type ➡️ form`.
1. You can see the forms received from the same created (search for title) in:

[btn icon-rectangle-list Google Forms](https://docs.google.com/forms/)
[btn icon-google-drive Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/)

##### Optional

- To customize the style of the form of form sent:
  1. `Customize theme icon-palette`
- To create a Google Drive spreadsheet where to save all the forms received as a database:
  1. `Responses` tab.
  1. `Create spreadsheet` (green icon of Google Spreadsheets).
  1. If it has already been created previously, by clicking this icon takes you to the calculation sheet already created.
- To receive notifications in emails:
  1. `Responses` tab.
  1. `Options icon-ellipsis-vertical`.
  1. `Receive by email notifications of answers`.
  1. This must also do each Google account in which you want to receive notifications. To do this, they must have an editing access, which is offered like this:
      1. `Menu icon-ellipsis-vertical`.
      1. `Add collaborators icon-user-plus`.
      1. Add the desired people.
      1. `Done`.

---

That's all, any questions [you contact me](/en/#contact).
